Updated the TypeScript quickstart guide to use the new 1.0 API (#141)
clockworklabs/spacetime-docs: docs/sdks/typescript/quickstart.md

# TypeScript Client SDK Quickstart

> In this guide, you'll learn how to use TypeScript to create a SpacetimeDB client application. While we currently support TypeScript as a client language, we do not yet support writing SpacetimeDB server modules in TypeScript.

Author: What if I remove the word `yet`. The point of putting this here is just so people aren't confused when they see 3 client langs and assume there are 3 module langs.

> In this guide, you'll learn how to use TypeScript to create a SpacetimeDB client application. While we currently support TypeScript as a client language, we do not yet support writing SpacetimeDB server modules in TypeScript.

Author: I think I've now addressed the appropriately.

}

@media (prefers-color-scheme: dark) {
  :root {
    --theme-color: #4cf490;
    --theme-color-contrast: #132219;
    --textbox-color: #0f311d;
  }
}

/* ----- Page Setup ----- */
html,
body,
#root {
  height: 100%;
  margin: 0;
}

body {
  font-family: -apple-system, BlinkMacSystemFont, 'Segoe UI', 'Roboto', 'Oxygen',
    'Ubuntu', 'Cantarell', 'Fira Sans', 'Droid Sans', 'Helvetica Neue',
    sans-serif;
  -webkit-font-smoothing: antialiased;
  -moz-osx-font-smoothing: grayscale;
}

code {
  font-family: source-code-pro, Menlo, Monaco, Consolas, 'Courier New',
    monospace;
}

/* ----- Buttons ----- */
button {
  padding: 0.5rem 0.75rem;
  border: none;
  border-radius: 0.375rem;
  background-color: var(--theme-color);
  color: var(--theme-color-contrast);
  cursor: pointer;
  font-weight: 600;
  letter-spacing: 0.1px;
  font-family: monospace;
}

/* ----- Inputs & Textareas ----- */
input,
textarea {
  border: none;
  border-radius: 0.375rem;
  caret-color: var(--theme-color);
  font-family: monospace;
  font-weight: 600;
  letter-spacing: 0.1px;
  padding: 0.5rem 0.75rem;
}

input:focus,
textarea:focus {
  outline: none;
  box-shadow: 0 0 0 2px var(--theme-color);
}

> ```

Reviewer: We're spending a huge portion of this tutorial doing HTML and CSS related crap, which seems to me to provide no value to our goal of teaching the reader how to interact with SpacetimeDB.

Author: Correct, but I don't know how to avoid that. I didn't want to have to keep a starter project, a tutorial, and a complete project, all in sync. Each of these tutorials is a standalone document (you don't need anything else besides this document to complete it). I think that's a good practice.

Reviewer: I think this is something we can improve in the future.  For now I don't love this, but I can live with it. As we get more time, more perspective and more automation, we can move to having a more succinct quickstart paired with more in-depth how-tos.

Now when you run `pnpm run dev` and open `http://localhost:5173`, you should see a basic chat app that does not yet send or receive messages.

## Generate your module types

The `spacetime` CLI's `generate` command will generate client-side interfaces for the tables, reducers and types defined in your server module.

In your `quickstart-chat` directory, run:

```bash
mkdir -p client/src/module_bindings
spacetime generate --lang typescript --out-dir client/src/module_bindings --project-path server
```

> > This command assumes you've already created a server module in `quickstart-chat/server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This command assumes you've already created a server module in `quickstart-chat/server`. If you haven't, go follow either the [Rust](/docs/modules/rust/quickstart) or [C#](/docs/modules/c-sharp/quickstart) module quickstart, then come back here.
```

I know it's linked above, but we should assume many readers will skip the intro.

Take a look inside `client/src/module_bindings`. The CLI should have generated several files:

```
module_bindings
├── identity_connected_reducer.ts
├── identity_disconnected_reducer.ts
├── index.ts
├── init_reducer.ts
├── message_table.ts
├── message_type.ts
├── send_message_reducer.ts
├── set_name_reducer.ts
├── user_table.ts
└── user_type.ts
```

> With `spacetime generate` we have generated TypeScript types derived from the types you specified in your module, which we can conveniently use in our client. The main entry to the SpacetimeDB API is via the `DBConnection` which was generated into the `module_bindings` folder. Let's import it and a few other types into our `client/src/App.tsx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `spacetime generate` we have generated TypeScript types derived from the types you specified in your module, which we can conveniently use in our client. We've placed these in the `module_bindings` folder. The main entry to the SpacetimeDB API is the `DBConnection`, a type which manages a connection to a remote database. Let's import it and a few other types into our `client/src/App.tsx`.
```

Author: Thank you. Missed the passive voice.

```tsx
import { DBConnection, EventContext, Message, User } from './module_bindings';
import { Identity } from '@clockworklabs/spacetimedb-sdk';
```

## Create your SpacetimeDB client

> Now that we've imported the `DBConnection` type we can use it to connect our app to our module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we've imported the `DBConnection` type, we can use it to connect our app to our module.
```

> Add the following to your `App` function, just below `const [newMessage, setNewMessage] = useState("");`:

Reviewer 2: useState should use single quotes, line should read:
Add the following to your `App` function, just below `const [newMessage, setNewMessage] = useState('');`:

Author: Great catch!

      );
      conn
        .subscriptionBuilder()
        .onApplied(() => {
          console.log('SDK client cache initialized.');
        })
        .subscribe(['SELECT * FROM message', 'SELECT * FROM user']);
    };

    const onDisconnect = () => {
      console.log('Disconnected from SpacetimeDB');
      setConnected(false);
    };

    const onConnectError = (_conn: DBConnection, err: Error) => {
      console.log('Error connecting to SpacetimeDB:', err);
    };

    setConn(
      DBConnection.builder()
        .withUri('ws://localhost:3000')
        .withModuleName('quickstart-chat')
        .withToken(localStorage.getItem('auth_token') || '')
        .onConnect(onConnect)
        .onDisconnect(onDisconnect)
        .onConnectError(onConnectError)
        .build()
    );
  }, []);
```

Here we are configuring our SpacetimeDB connection by specifying the server URI, module name, and a few callbacks including the `onConnect` callback. When `onConnect` is called after connecting, we store the connection state, our `Identity`, and our SpacetimeDB credentials in our React state. If there is an error connecting, we print that error to the console as well.

> We are also using `localStorage` to store our SpacetimeDB credentials. This way, we can reconnect to SpacetimeDB with the same `Identity` and token if we refresh the page. The first time we connect, we won't have any credentials stored, so we pass `undefined` to the `withToken` method, this will cause SpacetimeDB to generate new credentials for us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are also using `localStorage` to store our SpacetimeDB credentials. This way, we can reconnect to SpacetimeDB with the same `Identity` and token if we refresh the page. The first time we connect, we won't have any credentials stored, so we pass `undefined` to the `withToken` method. This will cause SpacetimeDB to generate new credentials for us.
```

If you chose a different name for your module, replace `quickstart-chat` with that name, or republish your module as `quickstart-chat`.

> In the `onConnect` function we are also subscribing to the `message` and `user` tables. When we subscribe, SpacetimeDB will run our subscription queries and store the result in a local "SDK client cache". This cache will be updated in real-time as the data in the table changes on the server. The `onApplied` callback is called after SpacetimeDB has synchronized our subscribed data with the client cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `onConnect` function we are also subscribing to the `message` and `user` tables. When we subscribe, SpacetimeDB will run our subscription queries and store the result in a local "client cache". This cache will be updated in real-time as the data in the table changes on the server. The `onApplied` callback is called after SpacetimeDB has synchronized our subscribed data with the client cache.
```

### Accessing the Data

> Once SpacetimeDB is connected, we can easily access the data inside of the client cache using our connection. The `conn.db` field allows you to access all of the tables of your database. Those tables will contain all data which you have subscribed to in your subscription configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once SpacetimeDB is connected, we can easily access the data in the client cache using our `DbConnection`. The `conn.db` field allows you to access all of the tables of your database. Those tables will contain all data requested by your subscription configuration.
```

Author: Just want to flag here that I edited what you wrote:`DbConnection` to be `DBConnection`. This reflects the actual type name that we currently generate. It's typical (although contested in the various style guides) to fully capitalize initialisms. e.g.

The AirBnB styleguide: https://github.com/airbnb/javascript?tab=readme-ov-file#naming--Acronyms-and-Initialisms
Things like `ReactDOM`: https://legacy.reactjs.org/docs/react-dom.html

      text: message.text,
    }));
```

That's all we have to do to hook up our SpacetimeDB state to our React state. SpacetimeDB will make sure that any change on the server gets pushed down to our application and rerendered on screen in real-time.

Let's also update our render function to show a loading message while we're connecting to SpacetimeDB. Add this just below our `prettyMessages` declaration:

```tsx
  if (!conn || !connected || !identity) {
    return (
      <div className="App">
        <h1>Connecting...</h1>
      </div>
    );
  }
```

Finally, let's also compute the name of the user from the `Identity` in our `name` variable. Replace `const name = '';` with the following:

```tsx
  const name =
    users.get(identity?.toHexString())?.name ||
    identity?.toHexString().substring(0, 8) ||
    'unknown';
```

### Calling Reducers

Let's hook up our callbacks so we can send some messages and see them displayed in the app after being synchronized by SpacetimeDB. We need to update the `onSubmitNewName` and `onSubmitMessage` callbacks to send the appropriate reducer to the module.

Modify the `onSubmitNewName` callback by adding a call to the `setName` reducer:

```tsx

>   const onSubmitNewName = (e: React.FormEvent<HTMLFormElement>) => {

Reviewer 2: onSubmitNewName is already added identically in the Basic layout section, on line 68.

Author: Oh, awesome catch. I meant to remove the implementation in the earlier section. Updated.

    e.preventDefault();
    setSettingName(false);
    conn.reducers.setName(newName);
  };
```

Next modify the `onSubmitMessage` callback by adding a call to the `sendMessage` reducer:

```tsx

>   const onMessageSubmit = (e: React.FormEvent<HTMLFormElement>) => {

Reviewer 2: onMessageSubmit is already added identically in the Basic layout section, on line 74.

Author: 🙏

Let's try out our app to see the result of these changes.

```sh
cd client
pnpm run dev
```

> Don't forget! You may need to publish your server module if you haven't yet.

Send some messages and update your username and watch it change in real-time. Note that when you update your username it also updates immediately for all prior messages. This is because the messages store the user's `Identity` directly, instead of their username, so we can retroactively apply their username to all prior messages.

Try opening a few incognito windows to see what it's like with multiple users!

### Notify about new users

We can also register `onInsert` and `onDelete` callbacks for the purpose of handling events, not just state. For example, we might want to show a notification any time a new user connects to the module.

Note that these callbacks can fire in two contexts:

- After a reducer runs, when the client's cache is updated about changes to subscribed rows.
- After calling `subscribe`, when the client's cache is initialized with all existing matching rows.

> Our `user` table includes all users not just online users, so we want to take care to only show a notification when new users join. Let's add a `useEffect` which subscribes a callback when a `user` is inserted into the table and a callback when a `user` is updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our `user` table includes all users not just online users, so we want to take care to only show a notification when new users join. Let's add a `useEffect` which subscribes a callback when a `user` is inserted into the table and a callback when a `user` is updated. Add the following to your `App` component just below the other `useEffect`.
```
